From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, but weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three 35 recorded
live Thursday, August 30th, 2012. This episode
is brought to you by
Tellerik offering the best in
developer tools and support online@telerik.com
and by Franklin Stott net
training developers to work smarter
and now offering gesture pack
a powerful gesture, recording and
recognition system for Microsoft connect
for windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In
this episode, Scott Hunter talks with
Rowan Miller from the entity
framework team about the recent
EFV five release. Hi, this
is Scott Hunter. This is another
episode. So minutes, a Hanselman
is still lost out in
the world on vacation somewhere.
And so I'm still filling
in for him today and
today I have with me
Rowan Miller from the interview
framework team. Hi, so as
Scott said, my name is
Rowan Miller. I'm a program
manager on the entity framework
team here at Microsoft being
on entity framework team for
about four years now, moved
from Australia to the U
S to work on the
team, started off as a
tester on the team. And
I've been a program manager
for about two and a
half years now. So Rowan,
we just shipped a.net 4.5
visual studio of 2012. Can
you kinda tell us what
if I'm a developer running
database applications what's new in
any framework this time around?
So this release is entity
framework bond, which introduces quite
a few cool new features.
If you're a developer first
up, we have support for
ANUMs. Now you could use
it in your model before,
but it was quite hacky.
So we now have native
support that, you know, within
the entity framework, we also
introduced the spatial data types.
Now these are into to
like the geography and geometry
data types inside SQL server,
but they're also part of
our providing model so they
can work on all the
database providers as well. In
addition to that, we have
some awesome performance improvements coming.
We saw up to a
67% performance improvement in an
end to end application that
we run here at Microsoft.
Obviously the stats that you
get are going to be
different depending on your application.
So that's some pretty serious
performance improvements. The EDF designer
also has some cool new
features in it. You can
map to table value functions
and you have a database
also known as TVs. We
have support from multiple diagrams,
had a whole new UI
to match the look and
feel of visual studio. And
we also introduced some performance
improvements to help not to
store procedures from the designer.
So I've been using it
for a couple of years
now and I, I used
to pack all the way
back in at 3.5 when
it was actually pretty hard
to use. Has it gotten
easier to use over the
last couple of years? I
mean, it was. I remember
back when I last first
started playing within the framework,
trying to get access to
things like foreign keys and
stuff was pretty complicated. So
for people out there that
not tried yet before or
credit at one point a
little too complicated, can you
tell us about, you know,
it's easy to use now?
Yeah, absolutely. So it's quite
interesting seeing what's happened with
you have the same RPDs
at the moment. We actually
have a lot of people
who were developers outside of
Microsoft and then joined Microsoft
from backgrounds where they were
using our ins access data
in real world applications. And
that seemed quite a significant
change in entity framework. We've
focused very much on providing
API as a simple and
intuitive to use way focused
on real world scenarios, looking
at what our customers are
doing. So you'll see quite
a remarkable difference, particularly in
the last few releases of
VF, a lot of improvements
in usability of the positive
framework. In addition to that,
I, I guess some of
the pain points we've seen,
you mentioned foreign keys. So
we now of course, he's
in the model, which allows
you to manipulate them. We
saw a lot of folks
like the designer. They like
working over an XML file
using boxes and lines, but
a lot of folks want
to just write code with
developers. We know how to
write code, and we know
how to review, not code
reviews. We know how to
resolve merge conflicts with code
and our source control systems.
And so we introduced the
alternative of code first, where
the model isn't stored in
XML, but it calculated runtime
based on the code that
you write. . So you're
saying that when I, when
I write an application with
ETF, now I don't have
to drag a database into
like a visual designer or
draw a bunch of boxes
and stuff. And the designer,
I can actually just write
my own classes and start
using my classes, my classes,
and I become my database.
Yeah. So with code first,
you basically have two options.
If you know someone who
has an existing database, or
you're a developer who wants
to start by hand cutting
the database, that's fine. And
you can write code. And
that's what this is kind
of akin to the database
first workload that we had
in the designer where you
have your database, and then
you reverse engineer a model
often, and we have some
tools to help you reverse
engineer, some code that will
map to that database. Or
you can hand write it.
Alternatively, if you just want
to write your model, then
we can actually generate the
database for you. And this
is why code really comes
powerful. Now that scares a
lot of folks that like,
I'm just going to watch
some classes, some classes, and
it's going to magically calculate
my database. Is that something
my GVI is going to
lie? Am I going to
have the control I need?
And I get the performance
that I need. And the
answer is actually yes, with
code first, you have a
lot of control over the
shape of the database. And
especially with code first migrations,
we give you even more
control and the ability even
to drop down to the
raw sequel, to define the
shape of the database when
you needed. So if I'm,
if I'm in this host
first model and I'm running
my own, my own classes,
how does let's say I've
got a product table and
I want to have categories
and suppliers, which are four
and tables that actually relate
to my, my product labs.
How do I model that?
How, how does, how does
code first, no relationships like
that? How does it know
how to like generate my
primary key? How do you
do those kinds of things?
So COVID first, we're trying
to follow this pattern called
convention configuration. So we have
a whole bunch of conventions
that will try and interpret
the shape of your model
based on the classes. So
one example is you mentioned
primary keys. So if I
have a product class, if
I have a property in
there called product ID, it
will automatically detect that that's
the primary key. If it's
a talking to Joe, then
we'll automatically configure it to
be an identity. Don't want
me to database to any
of the database. Valleys will
be generated on insert. When
we get to relationships, say
a product belongs to a
category where you simply define
your category class and then
add a property to your
product category class. And we'll
calculate that there must be
a relationship and we'll create
the foreign key constraint in
the database for you. Now,
like I said, it's convention
over configuration. So of course,
if the conventions don't work
for you, so you might
have a person class and
it has a primary key
code, social security number. We're
not going to pick that
up by convention, but you
have some options for configuring
that, the easiest one, just
being put a date or
annotation on there. That's the
key data annotation. Interesting. So,
you know another question, you
know, I, I know that
when I write programs and
stuff, I, I start off
with some classes and my
application a little bit, but
I always don't know what
all the fields are going
to be in my class,
know my application, you know,
kind of first coming to
shape. So, you know, for
example, I might start with
some object that has like
four or five fields in
it. And then I decided
to add two more fields
of this. This sounds kind
of scary to me because
I ha how are you
going to keep the database?
And my class in sync,
my fear would be, if
I went down this model,
I'm going to add a
couple fields in my database.
Do I have to like
delete my database every single
time I run my application?
If I, you know, how
do I, how do I
solve those problems? It's a
great question to start with,
with code first. We didn't
have a great answer to
in year 4.1, the answer
was you either had to
manually update the database. At
which point you lose a
lot of the benefits first,
or you had to use
this thing called a database
initializer, which would drop and
recreate the database. Every time
you changed the model. Now,
obviously that's not ideal but
feasible when you have a
development environment, but when it
comes time to deploy your
application as a horrible option.
So in 4.3, we introduced
this thing called code first
migrations. Now, migrations isn't anything
new, it's not earth shattering.
And something else came up
and migrations gives away of
writing some code that expresses
how to upgrade and downgrade
your database. So you have
a set of ordered, well,
nine steps that expressing code,
how to add properties to
the model or in turn,
how to add columns into
the tables in the database,
and then to downgrade as
well. And I just had
to drop those on the
way back down. One thing,
that's a bit different with
my Gretchen's or COVID first,
we can actually scaffold out
contents of the migration because
we know what the model
looks like. We know what
it looked like. Last time
you updated the database, we
can detect anything that you've
added or removed or changed
in the model. And then
we can scaffold some code
for you that you can
then look at and run,
or you can edit if
you want to. Interesting. So
you're basically saying I can
start with my class. I
run my application and my
database gets automatically generated by
energy framework with my class.
And then I have a
mechanism where I can go
back and add a few
more fields and run a
step. And you're going to
take a field that I
added and automatically generate a
C-sharp class or any class
that contains the code. They
would take my database up
to that stuff. That, that
sounds great. Let's me keep
in sync with my local
database. But what about the
scenario where I have version
one of my products, I
handle my customers. They buy
it, they're running in their
data centers. And then I
start working on version two
and I had a bunch
of more fields and we
can version two. How do
they IVIG their remote servers?
I mean, I understand the
development story where I can
keep my local database in
sync, but we have a
mechanism to, how do you
use remote servers? How do
you do this with on
team development, for example? So
the great thing about having
a well known ordered set
of migrations is we actually
record in the database when
these were applied. So this
is similar to other migration
frameworks out there. We have
a table that records, which
migrations have been applied to
the database. So in a
team environment, I might find
that one of my fellow
coworkers has gone and added
three or four new migrations.
Now I have cite 20
previous ones already applies my
database. When I pull down
his changes from source control,
I run migrations and migration
sees that I already have
a whole bunch of migrations
applied, but I'm missing the
six latest ones. So we'll
take the light six latest
ones and apply them to
my database. Now the same
mechanism can be used when
you get to deployment and
it's what we'd recommend. But
in some situations, having that
extra title in the database,
isn't going to be okay,
or having an application wasn't
coping the local machine, update
the database. Isn't going to
be okay either. This is
obviously true when you have
a DVI in the mix.
So one of the things
that we have in migrations
is the ability to create
preferable SQL script, which can
be used to apply the
migrations. So you just tell
us what migrations you want
to script for. So you
might say, go from version
two to four and we'll
generate a script to do
that migration for you. The
script can then be handed
off to a DVA to
be running test environments, to
be verified, and then eventually
running production. Interesting. So that's
that this, this kind of
reminds me of active, active
record on a Ruby. So
how does this compare or
contrast to that? Did you
guys take inspiration from that?
Or did we copy that?
I'm just curious. Yeah. So
I, like I said, migrations,
isn't anything you are Ruby
on rails is one example
of a, of a product
that's done in code by
some migrations that is like
fluid Migrator and a whole
bunch of other ones out
there that take a pretty
similar approach. So when we
go out to this problem,
we looked it up, we
looked at a whole bunch
of options and decided that
the way the community's already
approaching the problem is the
right way to do it
at the moment that having
code to go up and
down is sensible. It's easy
or what's willing team environments.
And it's easy for these
deployments scenarios that we talked
about. So to that extent,
we didn't want to reinvent
the wheel, but we did
add some value in that
when you're using entity framework,
you have this model that
you're aware of. So it
doesn't make sense to make
some changes in your model
and then have to go
and hand code. Those changes
in migration as well, which
is where this had migration
scaffold my changes for me.
And then let me review
and or edit those before
I actually run them. Interesting.
That brings up another point
that I think is interesting
in the, in the whole
migration standpoint. I remember you
guys released to preview almost
like a year ago of
migrations. It was very different
than migrations today. I think
it was actually, I think
my reaction to was it
was like automatic. It was
too automatic. It was like
every time I ran my
application, the database is automatically
synchronized with my database. And
can you tell us how
you started down that path
and how you ended up
with the more code based
model? What, what drove that?
Was it customers? Was it
what feedback? So that first
prototype that we released kind
of came from this. We
were playing around inside Microsoft
trying to work out, you
know, should we do something
similar to, what's been done
many times before in the
community. Should we look at
some of the things we
already have inside Microsoft that
can do this database migration?
Can we reuse some of
that? And so start with,
we started going down that
path and like, we have
some components here that can
do database migration already. So
we looked at using those.
It became very clear from
the feedback in that first
preview that customers didn't like
it after we were going
down. And one thing we've
been very careful to do
an entity framework, or we
use this slide in release
early release often. And that
allows us to basically in
this instance, we threw away
all the work we did
started again from scratch. We
building what our customers were
asking for. Plus obviously we
don't want to just do,
what's already been done before.
We want it to take
the power of editing framework,
the learnings that our team
have, the extra things that
are possible when you have
a model and apply those
to other problems, space as
well. So this must be
an ETF has, must be
working a lot differently than
it did back in the
past. I remember back in
the 3.5 framework days when
there was a lot of
disgruntlement in the community that
we were not to what
the customers want and what
the community wanted. So it
sounds like you guys are
working completely different than you
worked five years ago. Yeah,
absolutely. So starting with the
EFA 4.1 release, we started
doing previews very early. We
were releasing in the light
stages of releasing migrations. We
were actually releasing a preview
every four weeks and these
are very lightweight. These, we
were literally just taking a
build of what was checked
into our source system and
publishing. And when you get
so a few things have
made that possible. One is
having a nice, easy deployment
mechanism where we can quickly
and easily ship, not just
previews, but actual releases in
between releases of the domain
framework and visual studio. Interestingly
too, in those early stages
of VF, obviously at the
start of a project, there's
a lot of leg work
done to get the core
framework up and running. So
our team is executing very
agilely. Now we are listening
to our customers. We're able
to deliver new features very
quickly, but that all builds
on the foundation that was
laid on the stop. So
while we definitely could have
done a much better job
of listening to costumers of
the stock, that time spent
building a solid framework that
can handle a whole bunch
of queries. And it's really
complex mapping is paying off
today because it allows us
to live up pages quickly
and easily. I think it's
great to hear that, you
know, more and more teams
at Microsoft are being more
transparent and more open and
moving to that model. I
know the eighth tenant team,
which I work on is,
you know, spends a lot
of time doing the same
thing. When I think of
you have, I think it's
something else too, which is,
which is interesting. If I'm
a new customer, this is,
this is kind of a
common Microsoft problem, and I'm
probably guilty of hurting some
of this myself, but I
don't really curious what your
guys' thoughts are on this.
I'm a brand new customer.
I installed visual studio 2012
and I built a new
project, man. There's a lot
of ways to create a
database. One of the ways
I can right click on
my project and, and I
can add in any of
your framework model, and it
lets me design from a
designer or, I mean like
dragging existing database in, or
I've got this code first
model, is there, is, is
there any guidance from Microsoft
on what should I be
doing if I'm a new
customer, which of these models
should I be using to
develop? And what choices should
I make? What, what, why
would I choose one over
the other? What's what's the
pros and cons who's is
there, is the designer going
to go away? For example?
I mean, it sounds like
all I'm hearing is, you
know, we're doing all this
great code first work, we've
got this great migration work
and I'll ask even harder
question if I'm in the
designer and I add something,
is there a way to
have it do a migration?
So just curious to hear
what you, what your thoughts
are around these areas. Yeah,
absolutely. So in the past,
we, haven't done a very
good job of communicating this
and it's something we've tried
to really, I guess, be
very clear about in the
EFY release and the style
with no, the design is
not going anywhere. So funding
is not going anywhere as,
and we're not working on
it anymore. Not, not going
anywhere. And we're not going
to remove it, not going
anywhere as in, we're not
going to remove it. It's,
it's here to stay. It's
a very valid workflow. So
are we going to, are
we going to add new
features to it? Yeah. So
I was just going to
say at five, we actually
added a bunch of new
features to it. In fact,
if you look at the
facial list that you have
five, we added email and
some spatial. Now they work
in both the designer and
code first, apart from that,
most of the new features
were actually for the designer.
So multiple diagrams, table value
functions are only available through
the designer. They haven't been
added to code yet. Okay.
So I'm, I'm still confused
on, on when I should
use a designer when I
should use codes. Is there
any guidance from Microsoft on
What, what choices should I
make and when should I
make those choices? Cause that's,
that's, that's the hardest part
about Microsoft products is we
release new stuff every couple
of years and all the
old stuff is still there
and there's always five ways
to do something. And I
think, I know, I always
hear from our community that
God, there's five ways to
do this, and nobody wants
to tell me which one
is the right way to
do it. So I've got
you the subject matter expert.
What should I do? All
right. So two questions are
going to help you work
out the right one. So
first question something totally outside
of your control existing database
that a DVA has created,
or I created in the
past, or do I have
it you database by you?
My Greenfield empty database. I
want to add titles to,
or do I not even
have a database yet? Am
I happy for something to
create the database for me?
The next question, totally up
to you, totally inside your
control. And it's really simply
boils down to, do you
want to use boxes in
London or designer or do
you want to just write
code? And then that basically
leaves us with full boxes
that fill in and we
pulled those things and agree
if I want to use
the designer and target an
existing device, that's called database
first. If I want to
use a designer and target
and use a device, that's
called model first, the second
column is a bit confusing
and this is code first
code first, although it sounds
like it's all about new
databases. It can actually either
target any existing debt advice
or create a new database
for you. So we kind
of talked about you that
advice already, and that side
of mind, some classes I
possibly add some configuration and
then it generates a database
for me. The other option
is to not to an
existing device, either by handwriting
the code or by downloading
the engineer framework, pallet souls
and using those to reverse
engineer a code first model
for me. Now that brings
out one set of questions.
That's four different options and
there's no like single entry
point for those. So one
thing we're looking at for
the next release of entity
framework is when I right
click add new entity data
model inside my application, which
has traditionally been an entry
point for any of the
print work is turning to
include pole advice or options
in that single dialogue so
that we're giving out uses
one single place. You go
to help make the right
decision for their application. Now
we actually have that or
a, of this page up
on our site. So if
you go to Angela prime,
work.covid.com and you look under
the documentation tab, you'll find
a LinkedIn or a bunch
of pages specifications. And in
there, you'll see the pooling
consolidations spec, which is where
we start talking about what
that dialogue is going to
look like and how it
helps customers make the right
decision. So any of the
frameworks@covid.com, that's, that's kind of
interesting isn't code flex where
like source code releases and
stuff like that are supposed
to be up there. And
also, it's kinda interesting to
hear that you guys are,
you're putting your specs online
before you even shipped something.
This seems like, yeah. So
this is just one more
step along the continuum of
being more open as a
development team. So this isn't
just vex before we release
features. This is actually specs
before we even start working
on features. So we literally
haven't even started working on
this though. I loved yet,
but this bank is up
there in public and we'd
love your feedback on it.
And we don't just want
your feedback as a token
gesture, we're seeing an older
releases of entity framework, like
customer feedback is having huge
impact on the actual product
that we ship. We saw
this in code first where
the API looks nothing like
it is pending migrations. Again,
like you said, the whole
paradigm for migrations change lately
from the first release now
complex is where I can
source code goes and entity
prime where he's open source.
These days, that's a hundred
Apache, two licensed, and we
are actively working on pages
there. It's not just a
toss over the wall. Here's
the code that we shipped.
This is we are actually
working on the next version
of ND framework in the
open source code based on
code Plex. So you're saying
that I can go to
any of your frameworks@covid.com right
now, download the source code
for any new framework version.
I I'll have to ask
you what version and I
can build and use that
today. Yeah, absolutely. So our
team is currently working on
entity framework six. So we
shipped the F five, a
couple of weeks back. And
so now our focus is
shifting was the features that
, and you can go
download the source code, build
it, test it out, and
you can actually test out
some of the new features.
So some that are already
checked in, in EFC for
introducing asynchronous support. So you
can voice query and save
changes. Asynchronously using entity PrimeWay
that feature is checked in.
You can go look at
our unit tests and see
how it works. We're introducing
some new patterns for dependency
injection. Again, you can go
look at unit tests, download
the code, try it out.
We've done some work so
that you can store models
on two co-first models in
a single database. That's something
that didn't work in AFI,
but we've already enabled it
in ASX. Interesting. So ESX,
what is that all about?
Is, is there, is there
a roadmap somewhere? Is there
a list of features? What
if, what if I want
to have my feature? I
want to, you know, have
some crazy teacher that I
think should be NSX. Where
would I go and, and
give the feedback that I
want my feature to be
in ESX. And also what's
what time do you guys
have a timeframe? Yeah. So,
all right. Questions. So entity
framework.co flex.com is the place
to go. If you want
to log a feature request,
if you hit a bug
that you want us to
fix, go in and log
up there. Alternatively, if you
have a bug that you've
hit or you want to
feature, that is something that
our team isn't planning to
implement. Then we're actually accepting
contributions and we've taken three
contributions already from the community.
So one example, someone wanted
an interface, but on object
context, which our team wasn't
really planning to do it
wasn't super high priority, but
we actually checked in the
contribution, the paleo this week
for that change, there is
a road map on there
too. So if you want
to see what our team
is planning to do again,
if you go to the
documentation tab on the Koch
flex site, you'll see a
road map link there, which
will tell you all the
features we're planning to do.
And I'll plug a couple
while we're here. Things that
people ask all the time,
still procedures, support, and hope
first it's coming. And the
ability to customize the conventions
of code first users that's
coming. Also, this is interesting,
you know, once again, I
know that my team open
sourced our libraries, some of
our libraries earlier this year,
I'm a, I'm curious if
I'm, if I'm a corporate
customer listening on the podcast
today, now that you're open
source, does that mean that,
do I get the same
support? How does, how does
that work? Can you kinda
explain to everybody and how
does this change the world
for our customers need framework
only gonna be released on
code Plex in the future?
Or is it still gonna
be like a Microsoft release?
So that's a great question
and something, we spend a
lot of time working out
inside Microsoft before we made
this move. So he doesn't
change anything to the way
entity framework is released. Entity
framework is a fully supported,
fully tested, signed by Microsoft,
released by Microsoft with a
Microsoft license and full Microsoft
support. The only thing that
changes is the way that
we develop. So when now
open source, you can see
what we're doing. You can
test it out. You can
even jump in and get
on board with the development
process. Bear in mind, if
you want to submit code
into the framework, you're going
to be held to exactly
the same guidelines, hustings handles
and everything that we use
internally. So same high quality
bop for development, but you
can get involved in the
development process when it comes
time to ship. No changes
to the white was interesting.
So basically it sounds like
Microsoft is still the gate
for all changes that occur
in a new framework. It's
not just a free for
all. Yeah, that's correct. That
is one difference in some
open source projects, as far
as like the administrators of
the project and people who
can submit to the core
code base, that people who
can do the final code
reviews. And that is still
the Indian frameworks in here
at Microsoft. Another interesting question,
now that you guys are
open-sourcing this entity framework, six
of the.net framework ships with
you need to create more
4.5. And if today, how
is the CF six going
to work with any new
framework and the framework 4.5.
When I, when I downloaded
the framework six, is it
replaced the one in my
framework? How do I, how
do I, how do I,
and also how would I
migrate as well? I mean,
if it doesn't replace it,
how do I, how would
I migrate to the new
one? So can you help
us out with that? Yeah,
it's a great question. Entity
framework is definitely in a
slightly confusing site at the
moment. So not 0.5, that's
slightly confusing state. I love
the love, the competence there.
Yeah. So we tried to
make it less confusing just
by being very clear about
the way we talk about
things. So when we talk
about entity framework five, we're
talking about that you get
package that ships on UGA.
Now that's not quite true
because then it'd be point
where five is actually basically
three pieces, one it's the
new get packaged the chips
on it. You get the
older, it's also some components
that are still in the.net
framework from the earlier days
when entity framework was part
of the.net framework. In addition
to that, we also have
the tooling, which is part
of visual studio. So moving
forward, it's the way it's
going to work. Then you
get packaged still primarily entity
framework. But what we're actually
doing is taking the components
out of the framework and
putting them into the new
get package. Now, just to
clarify that the components are
still going to be in
the.net framework, cause I have
to be there for backwards
compatibility. I still need those
classes inside.net so that if
the application depends on them,
they're still there. But if
you're just using the nugget
package and then with these
components moved out, we can
do newer Vigo features without
having to update them anyway.
So I, for example, in
EFI, have to do the
emails feature. We had to
update components in the Hugo
package, but our query pipeline
mapping a metadata sections, they're
all inside the net. So
we had to release.net four
or five to be able
to support emails, which also
means if you downloaded have
five and you're talking to,
and go ahead, you can
still use the at five,
you don't get the email
feature in, you know, six
that restriction goes away. We
can do all these features
without revving the.net framework. And
in fact, things like emails
and the spatial data, we'll
actually start working on it
for so interesting. So as
we move to , you're
going to basically give people
using, it sounds like you're
going to target both dotnet
four and on it, four
or five for ESX. Is
that, is that right? That's
correct. And our aim is
to make every possible feature
work on vice.net four or
five. And that for now
we're still looking into things
like hazing, which is largely
about night four or five
feature, whether we can actually
enable that on Danette for
or not, but where possible
everything would work back the
doll head for. Okay. So
I've, I've got ESX on
my machine and I've already
got my application written 4.5
in the box or out,
how do I make the
switch? What do I, how
do I convert over? So
back in the year 4.1
release, we introduced a simplified
idealized. That is DB context.
Now this was like a
stripped down more efficient version
of object context, which has
been around since the start
of entity framework, David context
and the code first components
as well. Now I want
to be clear to be
context. Isn't just the code
first. And in fact, in
visual studio, 2012, if you
create a new model with
a designer, you will get
the DB context, but DB
context and code first have
always been in the new
package and I've never been
included in my work. So
if you are only using
the DB context API, then
you can seamlessly operate just
by installing that you have
six and you got packaged
and everything will just work.
Now, if you happen to
be using object context, or
if you're using the DB
context IPI, but dropping down
to the object context API
at times, then you'll need
to change some names spaces.
We've kept the IPO surface
looking the same, but to
avoid conflicts with the toxin
in the.net framework, we've put
them in, in United States. So
basically to operate in 99%
of cases, if you're using
DB context, nothing to do,
if you are using object
context, you would probably have
to go and change some
using. Awesome. So it sounds
like it's the upgrade. Model's
not too bad and I
can run a whole side
by side in some cases,
I guess. Yeah. That's actually
one great thing about not
being in the framework. Not
only, we're not the framework,
we're also not in the
gap, which means we're being
deployed everywhere. So you can
have open one solution that's
using AFI. You can open
another solution using  because
there's no central tool on
the box. Let's do apps
and happily run side by
side. Awesome. Well, I want
to thank you for joining
us today and talking to
us about all the great
new features of some of
the community of six and
some of the teachers Scott.
That's great. Then I just
want to give you one
resource. If you want to
know anything about entity framework,
then you want to hit
the msdn.com/  done a
lot of work to the
site, including a bunch of
videos to help you get
started. Thanks. Thanks for listening
to this episode of Hansel
minutes next week, Scott Hanselman
should .